Initial documentation review (#234)
salesforce/tough-cookie: README.md

# tough-cookie

[RFC 6265](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6265) Cookies and CookieJar for Node.js

[![npm package](https://nodei.co/npm/tough-cookie.png?downloads=true&downloadRank=true&stars=true)](https://nodei.co/npm/tough-cookie/)

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/salesforce/tough-cookie.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/salesforce/tough-cookie)

## Synopsis

```javascript
var tough = require("tough-cookie");
var Cookie = tough.Cookie;
var cookie = Cookie.parse(header);
cookie.value = "somethingdifferent";
header = cookie.toString();

> 
> var cookiejar = new tough.CookieJar();

Reviewer: ```suggestion
var cookiejar = new tough.CookieJar();

```
Cleaner spacing.

// Asynchronous!
var cookie = await cookiejar.setCookie(
  cookie,
  "https://currentdomain.example.com/path"
);
var cookies = await cookiejar.getCookies("https://example.com/otherpath");

> // Or with callbacks!

Reviewer: ```suggestion

// Or with callbacks!
```
Cleaner spacing.

cookiejar.setCookie(
  cookie,
  "https://currentdomain.example.com/path",
  function (err, cookie) {
    /* ... */
  }
);
cookiejar.getCookies("http://example.com/otherpath", function (err, cookies) {
  /* ... */
});
```

Why the name? NPM modules `cookie`, `cookies` and `cookiejar` were already taken.

## Installation

It's _so_ easy! Install with `npm` or your preferred package manager.

```sh
npm install tough-cookie
```

## Node.js Version Support

> Inspired by [AVA's support policy](https://github.com/avajs/ava/blob/v4.0.0/docs/support-statement.md), we follow the [node.js release schedule](https://github.com/nodejs/Release#release-schedule) and support versions that are in Active LTS or Maintenance. We only drop support for older versions of node when we do a major release.

Reviewer 2: Please incorporate the [feedback](https://github.com/salesforce/tough-cookie/pull/231#discussion_r818842852) @awaterma added for this section from #233

> Similar to [AVA's support policy](https://github.com/avajs/ava/blob/v4.0.0/docs/support-statement.md), we follow the [node.js release schedule](https://github.com/nodejs/Release#release-schedule) and support all versions that are in Active LTS or Maintenance. We will only drop support for older versions of node when we do a major release and in consultation with our community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We follow the [node.js release schedule](https://github.com/nodejs/Release#release-schedule) and support all versions that are in Active LTS or Maintenance. We will always do a major release when dropping support for older versions of node, and we will do so in consultation with our community.
```
Rephrase to emphasize that dropping support means a major release, rather than the other way around.

## API

### tough

> The top-level exports from `require('tough-cookie')`. All can be used as pure functions and don't need to be bound.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The top-level exports from `require('tough-cookie')`. All exports are pure functions and don't need to be bound.
```

#### `parseDate(string)`

> Parse a cookie date string into a `Date`. Parses according to RFC 6265 Section 5.1.1, not `Date.parse()`.

Reviewer 2: include link to [Section 5.1.1](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6265#section-5.1.1) of the RFC - https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6265#section-5.1.1

#### `formatDate(date)`

> Format a `Date` into an RFC 1123 string (the RFC 6265 recommended format).

Reviewer 2: Include link to the referenced [date and time specification](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc822#section-5)

#### `canonicalDomain(str)`

> Transforms a domain name into a canonical domain name. The canonical domain name is a domain name that has been trimmed, lowercased, stripped of leading dot, and optionally punycode-encoded (Section 5.1.2 of RFC 6265). For the most part, this function is idempotent (calling the function with the output from a previous call returns the same output).

Reviewer 2: Include link to [Section 5.1.2](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6265#section-5.1.2) of the RFC

#### `domainMatch(str, domStr[, canonicalize=true])`

> Answers "does this real domain match the domain in a cookie?". The `str` is the "current" domain name and the `domStr` is the "cookie" domain name. Matches according to RFC 6265 Section 5.1.3, but it helps to think of it as a "suffix match".

Reviewer 2: Include link to [Section 5.1.3](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6265#section-5.1.3) of the RFC

The `canonicalize` parameter toggles whether the domain parameters get normalized with `canonicalDomain` or not.

#### `defaultPath(path)`

Given a current request/response path, gives the path appropriate for storing in a cookie. This is basically the "directory" of a "file" in the path, but is specified by Section 5.1.4 of the RFC.

The `path` parameter MUST be _only_ the pathname part of a URI (excluding the hostname, query, fragment, and so on.). This is the `.pathname` property of node's `uri.parse()` output.

#### `pathMatch(reqPath, cookiePath)`

> Answers "does the request-path path-match a given cookie-path?" as per RFC 6265 Section 5.1.4. Returns a boolean.

Reviewer 2: Include link to [Section 5.1.4](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6265#section-5.1.4) of the RFC

> The `path` parameter MUST be _only_ the pathname part of a URI (excluding the hostname, query, fragment, and so on.). This is the `.pathname` property of node's `uri.parse()` output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `path` parameter MUST be _only_ the pathname part of a URI (excluding the hostname, query, fragment, and so on). This is the `.pathname` property of node's `uri.parse()` output.
```

This is essentially a prefix-match where `cookiePath` is a prefix of `reqPath`.

#### `parse(cookieString[, options])`

Alias for [`Cookie.parse(cookieString[, options])`](#cookieparsecookiestring-options).

#### `fromJSON(string)`

Alias for [`Cookie.fromJSON(string)`](#cookiefromjsonstrorobj).

#### `getPublicSuffix(hostname)`

Returns the public suffix of this hostname. The public suffix is the shortest domain name upon which a cookie can be set. Returns `null` if the hostname cannot have cookies set for it.

For example: `www.example.com` and `www.subdomain.example.com` both have public suffix `example.com`.

For further information, see the [Public Suffix List](http://publicsuffix.org/). This module derives its list from that site. This call is a wrapper around [`psl`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/psl)'s [`get` method](https://www.npmjs.com/package/psl##pslgetdomain).

#### `cookieCompare(a, b)`

> For use with `.sort()`, sorts a list of cookies into the recommended order given in the RFC (Section 5.4 step 2). The sort algorithm is, in order of precedence:

Reviewer 2: Include link to [Section 5.4](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6265#section-5.4) of the RFC

- Longest `.path`

> - oldest `.creation` (which has a 1-ms precision, same as `Date`)

Author: Our styleguide recommends the use of a hypen between the number and unit before a noun.

- lowest `.creationIndex` (to get beyond the 1-ms precision)

```javascript
var cookies = [
  /* unsorted array of Cookie objects */
];
cookies = cookies.sort(cookieCompare);
```

> **Note**: Since the JavaScript `Date` is limited to a 1-ms precision, cookies within the same millisecond are entirely possible. This is especially true when using the `now` option to `.setCookie()`. The `.creationIndex` property is a per-process global counter, assigned during construction with `new Cookie()`, which preserves the spirit of the RFC sorting: older cookies go first. This works great for `MemoryCookieStore` since `Set-Cookie` headers are parsed in order, but is not so great for distributed systems. Sophisticated `Store`s may wish to set this to some other _logical clock_ so that if cookies A and B are created in the same millisecond, but cookie A is created before cookie B, then `A.creationIndex < B.creationIndex`. If you want to alter the global counter, which you probably _shouldn't_ do, it's stored in `Cookie.cookiesCreated`.

Reviewer 2: This "Note" should be in blockquote so it has some visual differentiation from the surrounding text.

Sets the maxAge in seconds. Coerces `-Infinity` to `"-Infinity"` and `Infinity` to `"Infinity"` so it correctly serializes to JSON.

#### `.expiryDate([now=Date.now()])`

`expiryTime()` computes the absolute unix-epoch milliseconds that this cookie expires. `expiryDate()` works similarly, except it returns a `Date` object. Note that in both cases the `now` parameter should be milliseconds.

Max-Age takes precedence over Expires (as per the RFC). The `.creation` attribute -- or, by default, the `now` parameter -- is used to offset the `.maxAge` attribute.

If Expires (`.expires`) is set, that's returned.

Otherwise, `expiryTime()` returns `Infinity` and `expiryDate()` returns a `Date` object for "Tue, 19 Jan 2038 03:14:07 GMT" (latest date that can be expressed by a 32-bit `time_t`; the common limit for most user-agents).

#### `.TTL([now=Date.now()])`

Computes the TTL relative to `now` (milliseconds). The same precedence rules as for `expiryTime`/`expiryDate` apply.

`Infinity` is returned for cookies without an explicit expiry and `0` is returned if the cookie is expired. Otherwise a time-to-live in milliseconds is returned.

#### `.canonicalizedDomain()`

#### `.cdomain()`

> Returns the canonicalized `.domain` field. This is lower-cased and punycode (RFC 3490) encoded if the domain has any non-ASCII characters.

Reviewer 2: Include link to [RFC 3490](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3490)

#### `.toJSON()`

For convenience in using `JSON.serialize(cookie)`. Returns a plain-old `Object` that can be JSON-serialized.

Any `Date` properties (such as `.expires`, `.creation`, and `.lastAccessed`) are exported in ISO format (`.toISOString()`).

> **NOTE**: Custom `Cookie` properties are discarded. In tough-cookie 1.x, since there was no `.toJSON` method explicitly defined, all enumerable properties were captured. If you want a property to be serialized, add the property name to the `Cookie.serializableProperties` Array.

Reviewer 2: Use a blockquote for this note.

- _creation_ - `Date` - **modified** from construction to when the cookie was added to the jar.
- _lastAccessed_ - `Date` - last time the cookie got accessed. Affects cookie cleaning after it is implemented. Using `cookiejar.getCookies(...)` updates this attribute.

#### `new Cookie([properties])`

Receives an options object that can contain any of the above Cookie properties. Uses the default for unspecified properties.

#### `.toString()`

Encodes to a Set-Cookie header value. The Expires cookie field is set using `formatDate()`, but is omitted entirely if `.expires` is `Infinity`.

#### `.cookieString()`

Encodes to a Cookie header value (specifically, the `.key` and `.value` properties joined with `"="`).

#### `.setExpires(string)`

Sets the expiry based on a date-string passed through `parseDate()`. If parseDate returns `null` (that is, can't parse this date string), `.expires` is set to `"Infinity"` (a string).

#### `.setMaxAge(number)`

Sets the maxAge in seconds. Coerces `-Infinity` to `"-Infinity"` and `Infinity` to `"Infinity"` so it correctly serializes to JSON.

#### `.expiryDate([now=Date.now()])`

> `expiryTime()` computes the absolute unix-epoch milliseconds that this cookie expires. `expiryDate()` works similarly, except it returns a `Date` object. Note that in both cases the `now` parameter should be milliseconds.

Reviewer 3: We seem to have dropped the `now` parameter for `expiryTime()`; can we bring that back? I think we can also document the call without the parameter.

Reviewer 3: I think this is fine; removing this nit.

  }
```

## RFC 6265bis

> Support for RFC 6265bis revision 02 is being developed. Since this is a bit of an omnibus revision to the RFC 6252, support is broken up into the functional areas.

Reviewer 2: [RFC6265bis](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-httpbis-rfc6265bis/) is currently at revision 09.  Should this be updated?

Author: I would think so, but that decision sounds like it should come from someone on the dev side of this discussion.

Reviewer 3: We may want to drop the revision version piece here; we are still working to develop full support for RFC6265bis, I believe.  @ruoho

Author: Is support still under development, or has it been completed?
